Hey everyone.
Welcome to part four of the stock
market data analysis project.
And we're going to be looking at in
this part is stock and its risks.
So we're going to be look at various
methods to analyze the risk of a stock.
Let me go ahead and
jump over to the iPython notebooks.
So I'm gonna put a new tab here,
and this is just the off nbviewer,
the iPython notebook that I've already
created for you guys to follow along with.
So we just finished using paraplots,
and we're gonna see now
how we can quantify risk.
So one of the most basic ways of using the
information that we've already gathered
on daily percentage returns is to
compare the expected return with
the standard deviation
of the daily returns.
And so what I mean by that is if we
scroll down here we're gonna analyze and
compare the risk,
which is the standard deviation of your
daily returns versus your expected return.
So we're gonna go ahead and
make this scatter plot.
So, jumping back to our coding,
let's go ahead and start.
So I'm gonna define a new
data frame called rets, and
I'll set that equal to tech_rets.
And I'm gonna drop all
the null values using dropna.
Now I have that new New data
frame what I'm going to do as
well is set area equal to numpy.pi or
np.pi * 20.
And what I'll be using the area for for
is just to define the area of these
circles for the scatter plot.
Otherwise, you'll just get
these tiny little points and
you won't be able to see them.
And then I'm going to use PLT.scatter and
I'm gonna set mean of
the returns on the x axis.
On the y axis I will set the standard
deviation of those returns.
And, whoops,
I will set s equal to that area.
And then before we plot it out
I'll set the x and y labels.
So my xlabel is going to
be the Expected Return.
My ylabel is going to the risk
that the stock holds.
And then if I just come back here and
take a look at this plot,
in order to label scatter plots you can
use the annotations guide from matplotlib.
So I've provided the link here for you
matplotlib.org/users/annotations_ guide.
So go ahead and
follow that link you'll get to this page.
And you'll see that there's tons of
different ways to annotate axes and
points using matplotlib.
So, there's a bunch of different box
styles you can choose from: square,
sawtooth, roundtooth, circles, etc.
A ton of different arrows you can use.
Here you can see the curves,
arches, angles, squares and
then thicknesses, the wedges,
the fancies, the simple type of lines.
You have a lot of options here.
I'd just basically am going to whoops,
copy and
paste what I've already done here,
as far as the annotation.
Cuz, it's a lot to type out,
and I'll break it down for you.
So what I did here was I said for
label x, y, and zip.
And zip just allows me to call
these three things at once.
So I said for every column and
returns in that rets data frame.
So for
every column in that rets data frame,
set x equal to the mean of that column and
set Y equal to the standard deviation.
And then go ahead and using plt.annotate.
Set the label and
set these various arguments.
So all these various arguments of
text cords, HA horizontal access,
VA vertical access.
All these needs to be customized using
the information in the documentation.
So if you scroll down here
you'll be able to see you
can put in a bunch of
different data arguments.
And I'm just going to go ahead and
run this.
And there you have it.
So if you're running
this on a different day,
you're gonna get a different scatter plot.
Cuz remember, using our date time.now,
we received one year's worth of stock.
So if you do this a month from now,
you'll get a different scatter plot.
Now if you notice, Google or
Microsoft labels are hovering
right above each other.
You can go ahead and keep messing
around with these annotation styles.
Change the radius here of
the connection style or
just set the offset points to
make sure nothing's overlapping.
And you can get it to
look something like this.
I've set everything here
working correctly for
this particular days
analysis of that stock.
So I'll leave that up to you.
If you want to go ahead and analyze that.
But looking at the overall
picture of the scatter plot.
Preferably you would want a stock
to give a strong expected return or
a positive and a lower risk.
So it looks like Apple is
the best stock here to pick from.
And you really wouldn't want
a negative expected return,
so a daily percentage loss on your stock,
with a high risk cuz that would mean
you have a huge standard deviation.
Now, where it gets a little troublesome is
if you have a very high expected return,
but also your risk is high.
Then you're just playing
the stock market there.
Okay.
In the next video, we're gonna go
ahead and look at value at risk, and
we're gonna look at how to do
it using two different methods.
Using the bootstrap
method with quantiles and
then we'll also look at value at
risk using the Monte Carlo Method.
And we'll go over
the Monte Carlo Method later on.
Okay, so I'll go ahead and stop here,
and this video, just a quick overview.
We looked at how to do a basic risk
analysis by comparing your expected
return with your standard deviation of
that return, otherwise known as risk.
So we'll look at value at
risk in the next video.
All right guys, thanks and
I'll see you there.